Harmful algal blooms (HABs) are a challenge across the US and worldwide and require a One Health approach to consider the health of humans, animals, and the environment. Caused by an overgrowth of algae-like microorganisms in fresh and saltwater sources, HABs threaten human and animal health and aquatic environments. Using data from the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) Animal Poison Control Center (APCC), exposures calls made in the US and Canada among companion animals were described from 2010-2022. I co-first authored this study, "Geographic Variability, Seasonality, and Increase in ASPCA Animal Poison Control Center Harmful Blue-Green Algae Calls—United States and Canada, 2010–2022" which was published in Toxins. Using the geographic information from the exposure calls, I also created an ESRI Dashboard and Storymap. 


The Dashboard describes calls (N=999) made to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) Animal Poison Control Center (APCC) in the US and Canada during 2010-2022 concerning harmful blue-green algae exposures among companion animals (i.e., dogs and cats). Across the 13-year period, most harmful blue-green algae calls were made from the Pacific (N=265, 26.5%) and New England (N=211, 21.1%) areas of the US during late summer, peaking in the months of August (N=272, 27.2%) and September (N=215, 21.5% ). These harmful blue-green algae call data include date and location of each call and were analyzed by US Census Bureau geographic divisions. ASPCA APCC call data on harmful blue-green algae exposures in companion animals could be used as a public health information source for HAB detection, preventing future human and animal illness and injury. This Dashboard was featured at the 2023 ESRI User Conferece. 
Link to the Dashvoard here: https://www.arcgis.com/apps/dashboards/0affa3e5baad482db600ec8722041a31. 


 The Storymap also describes the calls received by the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) Animal Poison Control Center (APCC) concerning harmful blue-green algae exposures among companion animals made in the US and Canada from 2010-2022 (N=999). Choropleth maps were used to visualize call locations at the regional and state level. Over the 13 year period, the percentage of harmful blue-green calls increased, with the largest percentage of calls occurring in 2021. The most calls were reported in the Pacific (N=265, 26.5%) and New England (N=211, 21.1%) geographic divisional regions of the US during the late summer season in July (N=168, 16.8%), August (N=272, 27.2%), and September (N=215, 21.5% ). Public awareness of HABs was described using a Nexis Uni® search for HABs publications during the study period and HABs monitoring resources from state and federal partners were compiled to create an interactive webmap of HABs resources. The ASPCA APCC data on harmful blue-green algae shows utility as a public health information source for HABs detection, which could prevent future human and animal illness and injury. 
 Link to the Storymap here: https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/a85221b22640485897856ba743c454c6
